how to cook Mapo tofu get a delicious
spicy Chinese meal without calling for
take-out this dish which features tofu
and pork takes only a few minutes to
prepare you will need a quarter cup of
chicken broth 2 tablespoons of hot bean
paste 2 tablespoons of soy sauce kosher
salt 1 pound of regular or soft tofu
drained and cut into half inch cubes 2
tablespoons of corn peanut or canola oil
half a pound of ground pork shoulder 1
tablespoon plus 1 TSP of finely minced
garlic 1 tablespoon plus 1 TSP of finely
minced peeled fresh ginger 1 tablespoon
of corn starch 1 and 1/2 teaspoons of
Japanese sesame oil 1/2 a teaspoon of
toasted Szechuan peppercorn powder 3
tablespoons of thinly sliced scallions
and steamed rice equipment a wok or
large heavy skillet and a sieve step 1
combine the chicken broth bean paste soy
sauce and a dash of salt to taste in a
small mixing bowl to make a sauce
set aside step 2 heat a medium saucepan
filled with water until it reaches a
simmer reduce heat to low and slide the
tofu into the saucepan keep the water at
a low simmer while continuing to make
the rest of the dish don't let the water
reach a full rolling boil boiling the
tofu will give it a rubbery feel step 3
heat a wok or large skillet over high
heat add one-and-a-half tablespoons corn
peanut or canola oil to the wok and
swirl it around to coat the skillet step
4 add the ground pork to the heated wok
and cook until no longer pink break up
clumps of meat as you're cooking add the
remaining half a tablespoon of oil to
the meat if it begins to stick to the
wok step 5
add the garlic and ginger to the wok and
continue cooking for an additional two
minutes stir in your reserved sauce and
return the mixture to a simmer
sprinkle garlic cloves with a dash of
salt while mincing to keep them from
sticking to your knife step 6
drain the poached tofu using a sieve and
add it to the wok stir gently to combine
step 7
dissolve the cornstarch in two
tablespoons of water add to the wok and
bring to a boil stir gently cook until
the mixture has thickened and become
glossy about 15 seconds step 8
remove the wok or skillet from the heat
and sprinkle with sesame oil Szechuan
peppercorn powder and 2 tablespoons of
scallions stir until the ingredients are
combined sprinkle with the remaining
scallions and serve present with a bowl
of steamed rice for a tasty Chinese meal
that's sure to be a crowd pleaser
did you know soy beans which are used to
make tofu were first planted in colonial
America in 1755 in Savannah Georgia